I'll start with closures.
Now what are inclosures closures are basically functions which are defined in for example a number function
.
So in a local scope which have access to the variables defined around them or even if those rules are
defined in the local scope off the outer function.
So they are aware of their environment the closures and closures are a very useful tool for example
when having callbacks in functions where you want to execute a function as a whole bag as is called
that function is aware of its environment.
So off the function which Well resulted in the callback or in any other function where you have a function
inside a function.
Now I could imagine that this is not 100 percent clear.
So why don't we just have a look at it and learn it while using it.
So I will create a new function here in my chalice script code and I will name it generator.
Now this generator will take an input and then here I will define let's say a variable named number
which which is set equal to input.
And that's just to demonstrate what I was just talking about with the local scope.
This function will then return something and it will return a number function.
Now notice that this function here doesn't have a name.
It's just a function and then parentheses.
So this function here is an anonymous function.
We don't know its name and we don't need you because we're not calling it from outside.
We're just returning it here and we will be able to use it as such a return value.
But we don't need a name for it.
And this function here is a closure.
It's inside that function and it's aware of its environment.
We can use number or input inside this function.
And it's an anonymous function.
So here in this function I could then again return something I could return number times to.
Now this might look strange but what do you think will happen if I create a new variable which Haikal
calc and I set it equal to generator.
Let's say 900.
And what do you think will happen if I print Konsole log calc what do we see if I hit run.
We see the function.
Well maybe you expected an error or are you expected to see one thousand eight hundred but never a staircase
because we were executing generator which is dysfunction of course and we're passing 100.
Now this function simply returns as a function and overdoing as we're binding this return function to
Kalik and then we're printing it therefore we get the function which was returned.
But since we do get a function as a return value we can execute this function and I do this by adding
parentheses after Kelk of course because Kelk this variable is just referring to a function.
The function we're getting back from generator to disclosure is referring to disclosure here.
So if a clear day is run again what happens now.
Now I get one thousand eight hundred and maybe just looks straightforward maybe it doesn't.
But it's kind of surprising what's happening here because I'm calling a function here generator and
I'm passing 900 and it's not absolutely clear that the return function here which uses number will story
is 900.
This value and keep it until we call it.
It could also happen that we get this function.
And at that time we call it it's not aware of number.
But that's not the case in javascript.
That is what a closure is all about.
It is aware of its environment and store it so that when we use that function here which is bound to
the calc very variable it will still know what number was equal at the time it was well returned.
So this is really really amazing in my opinion.
I can even show it as if I add another very low Kellock number which is let's say generator.
That wasn't if I hit run again you still get 1800.
So even though I'm now rerunning this function and I'm resetting number and binding it to a number variable
and therefore this old variable this old closure is not touched by that as I said it stores it's environment
.
And this is a really powerful tool and that is as I said why it's often used for callbacks which have
to execute a function because you're able to store the environment